# Image-Segmentation-using-K-Means
Image segmentation based on histogram and clustering technique using K-Means and Edge Detector (Canny Edge Detector)
# 
Image  segmentation  is  an  important  component  in  many  image  analysis  and computer vision tasks. Particularly, the problem of efficient interactive foreground object segmentation in still images is of great practical importance in image editing and has been the interest of research for a long time. Classical image segmentation tools  use  either  texture,  color  or  edge  (contrast)  information  for  the  purpose  of segmentation.  Deformable  models,  Graph-cut,  GrabCut  etc.  are  some  prominent methods  used  for  the  segmentation  of  a  foreground  object.  Object  segmentation methods have helped in many computer vision areas, such as scene representation & interpretation, content-based image retrieval, object tracking in videos, medical applications etc. Two techniques were used in this project to achieve medical image segmentation. In the first; many ranges of pixels intensities of input gray image are defined depend upon the peaks in its histogram, this result in a set of binary images represent  these  ranges,  then  convert  these  images  into  uint8  class  images  and combine all these images to get the segmented image. In the 2nd; K-means algorithm was used for the same images, and the result is a set of clusters that are as compact and well-separated as possible. Then using linear filtering to get image regions with their boundaries (segmented image regions). Most object segmentation techniques in  computer  vision  are  based  on  the  principle  of  boundary  detection.  These segmentation  techniques  assume  a  significant and  constant  gray  level  change between the object(s) of interest and the background. However, this is not true in the case  of  textured  images.  In  textured images,  there  exist  many  local  edges  of  the texture  micro units (texels), due to the basic nature  of a  texture  image.  In  case of textured images, the object boundary is defined as the place where texture property changes. So to perform the correct segmentation in case of textured images, there is a need to incorporate the textural information in the segmentation process. 

(10) (PDF) Image segmentation based on histogram and clustering technique. Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/326177223_Image_segmentation_based_on_histogram_and_clustering_technique [accessed Oct 08 2019].
